Hi, Ian, it’s good to find you home.
In case you don’t recall,
my name is Francisco.
And I’m Shane.
Hello.
Good to see you.
You too, Ian.
The last time we were here,
we left the question, Why do we suffer?
Notice the answer that the Bible gives here
at 1 John 5:19.
Shane, would you please read that?
Sure.
It says:
“We know that we originate with God,
but the whole world is lying
in the power of the wicked one.”
Thank you.
So according to this verse,
who controls the world?
Is it God or someone else?
Hmm.
It says “the wicked one.”
Does that mean the Devil?
Yes.
He’s the real ruler of the world.
Do you think we’re seeing evidence
of his rule in the world around us?
For sure, all of the crime
and hatred that exists.
Exactly.
And in other parts of the Bible,
it shows that Satan’s influence
has led to sin and death for all mankind.
I’ve never heard that before,
but it makes a lot of sense.
You’re right; it does.
So God doesn’t cause our suffering,
but he does care about it.
Maybe next time we can discuss
how God feels about our suffering.
You may find that the answer addresses
some of those nagging questions
you’ve had about God.